[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
Joe. Yes. Have you ever wanted to tour a
data center?
Uh I'd love to.
Um Part of me thinks it would be really
boring. Like if you actually went inside
cuz it would just be a bunch of the same
cables like over and over and over
again. But part of me thinks just seeing
the scale of it would be amazing. You
know what I would do if I toured a data
center? Is I would look at those cables
and every nut and bolt and vac and and
heating thing and get every brand name I
could on any little piece of equipment
in the entire thing and then see are
there any of these that are AI plays
that the market doesn't really you know
any random screwdriver that's being used
in this operation what is the name is it
publicly traded
>> picks and shovels.
>> Yeah just lit exactly. Oh here is here
is a company that makes the
you know the door stop is are they an AI
play because they're going to need a lot
of door stops for all these doors.
That's what I would do. Okay so I guess
the the Joe hyperscale data center ETF
coming to a market near you eventually.
That would be a good idea actually.
>> idea. Well today we're going to talk
about some of these data centers with
someone who has actually gone on a field
trip and looked at them and then we're
going to talk about broader AI because
of course
with markets still you know basically at
records there's a lot of concern that
valuations are getting out of hand.
We've had these financing deals which
just do my head in in terms of like
trying to track who's lending to who and
who's buying from who and all of that.
So we should talk about it.
>> which is one we know how important AI is
to the stock market two you know as you
there's all these sort of complicated
financing deals and the numbers change
by the day. So just today we got news
that in the latest open AI is allowing
some of its employees to sell shares at
a half a trillion dollar valuation. Ev-
it just seems like it's constant
fundraise constant numbers that go
higher and higher and higher every day
various estimates for how much capital
expenditure is going to happen in this
cycle seem to go up. I feel like what we
really need to do is have one of these
conversations every month and just get
for real like we need to keep like it
changes so fast and the stakes seem so
high. Yeah you definitely need frequent
updates. The other thing of course
hovering in the background is the
importance of the AI buildout to the
overall economy right? And this is the
question like is the I think Deutsche
Bank actually put out a note on this. Is
the entire US economy being propped up
by AI right now? Maybe that's not a
problem if you know if the AI stuff
actually gets built and materializes
into real money but you can imagine if
it is a bubble then that would be bad.
The way I see it is there's essentially
two ways this is going to end up. One is
it turns out it was a bubble we have a
massive recession and we all lose our
jobs. And the other possibility is that
AI is not a bubble we have AGI and we
all lose our jobs. And so I'm curious
which of the two paths is going to
happen. Well I got to say there are some
alternate possibilities. Did you see the
Dallas Fed chart? Uh I haven't seen that
one. So it showed GDP per capita and one
line was like for AGI and it just goes
straight up.
>> Straight up it just literally vertical.
>> Yeah but then the other line is what if
the robots take over the world and kill
everyone and that line went straight
down. So yeah so
Okay okay.
>> Lots of good outcomes here. Yes all
right so we have the perfect guest
someone we've spoken to before who
writes absolutely phenomenal research
about AI and actually digs into
literally the nuts and bolts of
everything. We're going to be speaking
with James Van Geelen. He is the author
of the Citrini newsletter. James thanks
for coming back on. Thanks for having
me.
I feel like the last time we were here
we were also discussing whether AI is a
bubble or not and we get to do it again.
Well it's just keep doing
>> day it'll be right right? Analysts going
on field trips is one of my favorite
genres of research.
Explain to us how you managed to do
this.
So
drones have become very commoditized.
The likelihood of anything in the world
being more than a 10-mile radius from
someone with a drone is extremely low.
And
we kind of use that to our advantage
because we've been sitting in front of a
screen watching green numbers go up and
up and up and it's not my fault that
they named it Stargate. It kind of lends
itself to to not taking it as serious as
as one otherwise might. And someone I
read a tweet that said well where's the
proof?
They're probably should be proof right?
So we looked at some satellite images
and we went okay a year ago this was
dirt and now there's this thing and it's
the size of lower Manhattan. Wow. So
>> Texas right?
>> It's in Abilene Texas and and the the I
mean this is actually one of the smaller
ones. I mean if you look at
Louisiana Meta's Hyperion it would start
the footprint would start at the top of
Central Park and it would go down to
Soho. Wow. So
That's why they call it hyperscale.
>> So just to be clear with Stargate this
is like the thing that like Trump and
Oracle and probably SoftBank is in the
middle like what is this complex who's
behind it this thing that you went and
toured and got some drone footage of? So
it's essentially a mix of um
you know Oracle Open AI there's some
involvement from Nvidia there's Saudi
interest with MGX there is some
financing involved and it is just one of
currently five data centers that are
planned with a half a trillion dollars
of investment. That's why we went and
looked at it because when you really
think about it this represents
probably the largest infrastructure
buildout and effort since World War II.
Where are they getting the energy from?
So that's
that's the that's the best part. That
was the first thing we saw on the drone
is you fly over it
and they just built their own natural
gas plant. Huh. And going like Joe great
idea just going and looking at all the
but you got to look at the big stuff too
right? And and without uh
I mean without power these are just kind
of
you know hunks of metal. So
you have outside of Stargate Abilene 10
natural gas turbines and the interesting
thing is these aren't like the really
good natural gas turbines because if you
wanted so natural gas turbines fall
along simple cycle combined cycle these
are simple cycle they're each 35
megawatts which is very much on the
lower end.
Half of them are from GE Vernova half of
them are from Caterpillar a company that
Caterpillar owns called Solar Turbines.
And the reason why they're not you would
think oh you're spending half a trillion
dollars on these things you could
probably get the best thing ever but
that'll take you seven years. Oh right
cuz there's a there's a natural gas
turbine shortage. By the way there's a
headline
So there's a headline on article on the
Bloomberg today by Matthew Griffin the
hunt for winners in the artificial
intelligence gold rush has landed on an
unlikely target old line industrial
equipment maker Caterpillar Inc. So you
got to look at every one of these brands
that's supplying it and Caterpillar is
up a lot it's up today and the stock is
done very well. So okay Caterpillar who
else what are some of the what else do
you see besides these big turbines when
you go out and tour this facility? So
essentially
>> is a rocket so that's at 40 cents.
>> people like security guards?
>> many people. Huh. And I mean it's
they're
I don't know you've seen like Silicon
Valley and there's that scene where
there's like one guy in the data center
and he's like yeah you know night and
day don't really matter much down here
and it's just one guy running but in the
buildout I mean there are
every single HVAC technician or guy that
knows how to lay fiber or guy that knows
electrical or plumbing uh
within a 100-mile radius of Abilene
those are they're all there right?
There's 7,000 people working on building
this and this is just one site and yeah.
So people have been talking about the
picks and shovels
phase of AI investment for a while now
but it seems like stuff is still getting
built and it has further to run. My kind
of favorite we can you know and I'm sure
we will discuss whether this is a bubble
or not but
at the end of the day the money is
getting spent and
my favorite kind of setup in the market
is you have something that has a
multiple that reflects kind of a wrong
reality or doesn't really fully
integrate a secular theme
and then
you have a cycle that's really bad. So
whether it's kind of the robotics supply
chain goes throughout the automotive
cycle and if you guys are aware that's
been a nightmare.
And then you have some of these a lot of
these companies took really significant
drawdowns when Trump got elected because
uh the
this isn't really tech CAPEX. It's much
more similar to like LNG terminal CAPEX.
That kind of entails the same companies
that were benefiting from the IRA. Oh
interesting. So everyone sold them and
now it turns out it's kind of like the
horseshoe theory right? You can
No that's super interesting like it's
just these sort of like old line
industrials and they did very well under
the Obama administration because of all
the factories and all that stuff that we
talked about and then it's like okay
we're pulling the plug on this." But now
there's just this tidal wave of money.
By the way, Caterpillar was a $334 stock
on April 2nd, right before Liberation
Day, which is sort of where we should
benchmark things. Now it's 486, an
all-time high. What are some of the
other companies you see out there? Yeah,
for real. Like
>> Preferably the ones that haven't gone up
yet, right?
>> yeah. Well, but seriously, like who else
is who else is getting a piece of this
action? So,
something that I want to make sure I
mention just to frame this whole thing.
If you look at the building site plans,
they have the names of all the data
halls, and they are literally each
called Ludicrous Building. So, it's
Ludicrous Building 1, Ludicrous Building
2.
>> Amazing. Wait, is it Ludicrous with a K?
No. Oh. That would be great.
Or I mean, Ludicrous spelled correctly
is also fantastic, but The company I
mean,
really I would encourage anyone to go
and look at this video because the the
it's it's just a there is such a
disconnect between
looking at green numbers going up like
like Caterpillar going you Okay, cool.
And then you see it, and it is
mind-blowing. I mean, they have rows of
dry adiabatic coolers that are you know,
hundreds and hundreds of for the liquid
cooling loops. And then you have uh the
kind of all the HVAC, the power
generation, the transmission.
We compile a list of basically
200 companies, 50 of which were high
confidence in in kind of seeing as part
of this buildout. And the interesting
thing is you have these multinational
OEMs.
The scale of this project is so large
that you can call one of them and say,
"Okay, we want to go with
you know, Mitsubishi Heavy or we want to
use Eaton for for this thing."
And they will say, "Yeah, okay, well, we
can do 60% of it." Hm.
I mean, it it the
biggest companies in the world are are
Yeah. They're just fighting They don't
have to fight with each other cuz the
pie is so big.
>> How scarce You know, there's all this
around the country there's been all this
tension of like, is there going to be
enough energy for data centers? What
about the water? What about the
politics? People We see these
town halls where the locals don't want a
data center. How scarce are locations
like Abilene? I mean, there's a lot of
empty space in Texas. Could you see
other more Stargates or more Abilenes
out there waiting where the companies
can just say, "You know what? We're just
going to build our own infrastructure.
We're going to build our own natural gas
plant, and we're just going to do it in
the desert in Texas where we don't have
to worry about NIMBYs or local politics
or anything." Is that the future for a
lot of this stuff? Yeah, there's already
another
facility that's planned in Shackelford,
Texas, which is not too far from
Abilene. Abilene is already planning on
expanding by another 600 MW. I mean,
that's how we're measuring data centers
now is just in MW and GW. Uh in
Louisiana, that's where Meta's building
Hyperion. You have
some
unidentified or unannounced Midwest
facility that'll probably be in Ohio.
Basically, yeah, anywhere that you can
get the gas, anywhere you can get the
power, anywhere that there's the land
There was one planned in
Indianapolis. And it's interesting you
bring up water cuz we wrote about water
a little while ago as well. And we were
basing our projections off of what the
water consumption of like existing data
centers were. The advancements in liquid
cooling have changed that a lot. So,
there was a huge kind of uproar
about
well,
this data center's going to use so much
water. And if you look at it, this was
in Indianapolis. And if you look at it,
it's about the same amount of water as a
thousand households because it's all
closed-loop liquid cooling now. The
water just gets recycled and and
filtered back. So,
it's really just something where
the
constraint is still power. And getting
these kind of turbines and it's and and
it's going to increasingly become a
thing where it's behind the meter power
generation. They're just going to build
their own power plants. They're not
going to rely on the grid. You guys
remember what happened in Texas in '21
with
Yeah. They you cannot underwrite that as
a data center. Like
you just can't be offline. So,
that's kind of where we're headed is
that this power and energy kind of
bottleneck is the bottleneck. The most
one of the more interesting things we
ran across is you look at XAI's data
center. And we went through a lot of the
filings of all these different data
centers. They're permitted for 15 35 MW
turbines.
And
there's thermal imaging of the site that
shows they're using 35. Hm. GE Vernova,
another one. That was a $330 No, there's
just You're just typing tickers now.
>> was a $330 stock on April 2nd. That's a
$609 stock.
>> Okay. Check out Siemens Energy. Thank
you, Joe. Oh, he's He's doing it. You
can keep You can keep going. All right.
I have kind of This isn't an essential
question, but
>> Okay, wait, I got a
Wait, Siemens Energy
>> was going to happen. Siemens Energy was
a $56 stock on April 2nd. That's a 108.
That's a straight line up. Okay. Okay.
Clearly, someone's making money.
>> Yeah.
[Music]
Like how big are the walls of these
things? And what does security actually
look like? Cuz you know, we talk about
people being upset about higher energy
prices. I understand that maybe some of
the some of them are building out their
own energy capacity, but you know, in a
populist mindset, people might still be
upset at AI, still upset that AI is
going to take jobs and things like that.
They could become targets, right?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I I I mean, apparently
security isn't tight enough to shoot
down a drone yet. Oh, of course. Yeah.
But when you talk about the walls, like
the interesting thing is everything in
this data center has it You can't just
build it like a house. Everything needs
to have the right you know,
anti-corrosion,
insulation. You can't just be losing
heat. You're already spending so much
money on cooling. So, everything in the
building envelope is also kind of the
most expensive thing it could be. And I
assume it's like a sealed envelope, I
guess.
>> Yeah, exactly. And and uh the
the opportunity of just
how how big is this going to be? If you
actually believe the the
the people that are building this and
this is kind of an interesting dynamic
of the hyperscalers are in somewhat of a
prisoner's dilemma. We can't speak to
whether they actually
believe or not, but the party line is
we're building machine god. And if we're
building machine god, then that's kind
of a religious zealotry. So, 3 years
ago, most of these hyperscalers were
making net zero by 2030.
That is not happening. There's no way
that's happening. Maybe they buy carbon
off it, but that's not happening because
if you need to do it now, you're using
natural gas.
And
then you say, "Well, once we create
machine god, machine god will fix it."
Right. And you can justify a lot of
stuff.
Wait, okay. So, let's talk about is AI
in a bubble? Cuz when when we're
conversing about buildings that are
literally called Ludicrous, and we're
talking about machine god will solve all
our problems, Sounds a little bubbly.
Yeah, that's the kind of stuff you look
back on and say, "Oh, yeah, that was the
top." I know that we we have to talk
about this, and that requires some
numbers, so I have some notes. But
the interesting I mean,
you can make a case for either side, and
it kind of hinges on
not so much what AI looks like in the
future, but more where we are in the
cycle. If the question is is AI a
bubble? Yeah, probably. It's a new
technology. It's exciting. Every single
time we've the railroads, the you know,
dot-com
probably if it's not a bubble, it will
be, and it probably is already.
But where are we in the bubble? That's
the interesting thing for investors. So,
if you look at kind of
where are we in the financing side? When
we had the dot-com bubble, the big thing
Are you guys familiar with dark fiber?
No. So, essentially, they were building
out this kind of infrastructure for the
internet. And the the conviction of the
day was the internet is going to be the
biggest thing in the world, correct? And
97% of the fiber that was laid was
called dark fiber because it wasn't lit
up. It was just laying there because
eventually we're going to need it.
That's not the case right now. Every
single time that one of these data
centers comes online, you're at 100%
utilization. There's no dark fiber, and
we're continuing to need more. I mean, I
don't know if you guys saw Sora 2. More
than 70% of the content that we consume
is video.
So, a video model makes a lot of sense.
It's also way more compute intensive.
And
the the final form of chat AI is not
chatbots.
It's going to be video. It's going to be
robotics, which use video models. So,
that's kind of like the the bullish
side, but I totally see I have some
numbers here. So,
we've had some of these circular deals.
Um
And uh
so far, I mean,
there's hundreds of billions of dollars
for this. Most of the financing is
structured much more like toll roads or
LNG terminals. The Meta's Hyperion was
$29 billion. 26 billion of that was
Pimco on debt, and then Blue Owl with 3
billion of equity.
An off-balance sheet arrangement, which
also was pretty popular during the
dot-com bubble. Then you have stuff like
GPU collateralized SPVs. CoreWeave had
is a $7.5 billion Blackstone SPV.
There's like an $11
billion
compared to the the infrastructure thing
I can get the that is like those GPUs
are going to be worth like they will
depreciate, so
>> Yeah. That's that's ABS, right? That's
like asset backed securities. Okay.
>> Yeah, but when you look at the where we
just saying, where are we in the cycle?
Well,
there's been there's been a lot of these
off-balance sheet arrangements, but
in terms of that prisoner's dilemma that
we spoke about where nobody's going to
back off because then maybe they risk
not creating machine God, the debt to
equity ratio on most of the hyperscalers
is not crazy. Sure. Oracle has the
highest and but they still have a lot of
room to lever up in pursuit of this
goal. The interesting kind of dynamic of
Nvidia finances its customers and then
its customers buy Nvidia GPUs and then
they know that yeah, that's a viable
dynamic that's that's visible circular
financing and and but the demand is
real. Well, this is my this is I guess
the question. If the demand is real, why
are the Nvidias of the world financing
their customers, right? Intuitively you
think, okay, Nvidia's the demand for
chips is maxed out, right? Then
intuitively you think, well, then
there's plenty of money elsewhere. So do
you have a
guess for why Nvidia is compelled to,
you know, invest in open AI, invest in
CoreWeave. It's been a long time
investor in CoreWeave and so forth.
Yeah, I I could I could take the very
skeptical view or the kind of
non-skeptical view. The non-skeptical
view is the best thing for Nvidia is
that we accomplish AGI. So anything that
it can do to get us closer to that
massive massive infrastructure that's
required for that is great for them.
>> As quickly as possible.
>> As quickly as possible because
every year that you don't achieve AGI
becomes less likely.
So
that is maybe the core factor and then
there's
it's good for for them and
and playing into that
the because this this isn't necessarily
like the dot-com bubble because the
dot-com bubble had fiber and then it
had, you know, pets.com and and Amazon
and all that stuff. This is all pretty
much CapEx, right? It's the tech is
capital intensive again,
which means that it's the bust won't
necessarily be like the dot-com bubble
where it gives the real players time to
shine. If the CapEx spending grinds to a
halt
because the market goes down, that's the
worst thing in the world. So in a way
it's also it's in their interest
obviously to make sure that that doesn't
happen.
[Music]
Another question actually but I know I
want to ask it now cuz I might forget.
Um there was a headline I think earlier
this week again, headlines almost every
day.
Can you explain why Meta, which is
building out which obviously
hyperscaler, they have tons of data
center capacity, why did they need to do
a deal with CoreWeave? So I saw that
Meta is going to
pay few bill 14 billion some number for
capacity on CoreWeave. What can the what
do the neo clouds bring to the table
such that the legacies like, you know
what, we we want some of your capacity.
It's basically I would say
anything you can do to shift that CapEx
away from yourself is great, right? If
you if you're if you're right now a lot
of this stuff is funded from cash flow
and yeah, we're starting to see debt
financing take its place, but
if you the the you're running a company
that's existed for a while and is one of
the biggest companies in the world and
yes, you could justify taking enormous
amounts of risk to do this, but
just like anyone else, if you have a
goal and you can kind of shift away some
of that risk to cuz if, you know, if
CoreWeave goes bankrupt, Meta's not it's
not it's not the worst thing in the
world for Meta. What would you be
looking out for for signs of the bubble
bursting or I guess the CapEx faucet
starting to turn off?
So
in terms of like the uh
warning signs, first
monitoring used GPU prices I think is a
great way to to see what's going on.
Seeing like contract renegotiations,
waiver headlines from private credit and
also a big one would be any delays in
delivering power.
Um make it so that you finance this
thing and then it's not going to be able
to work. Right? I do think that another
you really do have to kind of index to
the revenue that's being generated by
the AI companies as well and I know you
saw OpenAI recently announced that
they're basically allowing you to buy
things with one click from the inside
the app.
And I think that that was also a big
driving factor in the router where they
kind of route your model to the it's
it's it's setting it up for advertising
cuz the other day I asked Google a
pretty simple question and it just gave
me the answer
with no advertisements. So what So we
need to
I think that there is the killer apps
kind of are here or coming, but that has
to happen
fast. Yeah, the the fact that the
internet kind of runs on ads is an under
appreciated
reality of our world and we did an
episode on it way, way back in the day.
Is there any way if I wanted to get
exposure to like the good stuff of AI,
the actual money being spent, but then I
don't like all the circular financing
arrangements, is there a way to hedge
that particular risk? Yeah, you could
you could
buy all the real companies that are
building this kind of data center and
then you could short Blue Owl
and the private credit companies that
are doing the kind of financing aspect
of it because if it goes bad, they have
limited upside and kind of unlimited
downside and if it continues happening,
the companies that are actually building
it have unlimited upside and they're
still like you said, these old line
kind of industrial that like they still
have a core business to go back to.
What's your take on so OpenAI announced
its new Sora thing that Tracy has as a
code for, Meta announced its Meta AI,
which a lot of people like this is slop
and I don't we don't need to get into a
debate about whether this is garbage. I
kind of think it is, but that's not
actually the question I'm interested in.
The question I'm interested in is one
way to view these things is
you know what, these are going to be
these video these AI videos are going to
be really important sort of business
revenue drivers in our pursuit to AGI
and the other view is, look, if they
were close to AGI, they would not be
devoting time to the slop factories. And
this is the sort of question and I'm
curious from your perspective, what do
you think is the real logic behind all
of this effort to create these sort of,
you know, dumb like, oh, a video of a
astronaut riding a horse through space
with a, you know, cowboy hat on or
whatever. Video models are going to
become the most important part of this.
You
uh you need
for example, LLMs don't really interact
with the world, but we're starting to
see in robotics AI models interact with
the world. So you have these video
language action models and you can
structure it so that there was a
interesting paper on archive recently
that uh and you know, this is uh
video models like VO3 are emergent
zero-shot learners and understanders.
What that just means is you can give it
uh basically like a second of context
and then it can extrapolate about what's
going on beyond that.
That becomes extremely important for
robotics. And you can structure these
vision language action models where you
have like a slow reasoning model that is
kind of like your conscious mind and
determines what it needs to do and then
you have like a fast model that actually
does the movements and stuff. AI kind of
extends into the realm of
you need to generate as much data as
possible and having, you know, video
data and knowing what's good and what's
bad is also very important. But yeah, to
your question, OpenAI
probably
does want to show that they're making
more money. And I don't doubt that there
are people there that truly believe that
they're building the machine God and I
also don't doubt that they realize if
they to have a shot at doing that, they
need the market to play along and they
need to keep growing their revenues. So
I think there's a lot of really good
counterarguments about like not
necessarily are we in a bubble? Yes, uh
is the bubble over? Like there are good
arguments for that. I don't think one of
the I don't think that oh well, they're
leaning into like kind of this slop that
you know, it's a company. They're going
to do whatever they can to make money.
That's capitalism.
Um you know, one of the things I think
about another reality of our current
time. This is kind of related, but if
we're talking about video data,
YouTube staying power has been like
phenomenal, right? It's been around for
decades now and we haven't really seen
any successful competitors.
Anyway. Well, since we wanted to talk
about stocks that are going up and I
know uh What's another one?
Uh
people kind of forgot that video takes
up a lot more storage than text does and
if we're going to start just like
throwing out the slop on video, the part
basically one of the only areas of
semiconductors that has gotten ignored
has been storage. Not like not like
memory like like
RAM and stuff, but like hard drives and
solid state disks like Western Digital
and you know, Okay, so Seagate. Yeah,
Seagate.
>> That's what we're talking about. So this
was a
this was a $84 stock in late March and
now it's at 254. That's where you're
going, right? Okay.
>> Yeah. And
>> Yeah, there's a crazy there's a crazy
chart.
>> But it has gotten attention, but you
think it could go up more? I think so
and I think that uh
to illustrate that dynamic that's going
to keep happening. Basically you just
keep looking at stuff where there's
people say, oh well, you know, there's a
there's a glut of X and that's why this
isn't going to win from AI and then
eventually the glut of X doesn't matter.
It's a that that's what happened to
Nvidia in the beginning of all this.
There was a glut of crypto GPUs. And now
nobody like when when's the last time
you heard someone be bearish on Nvidia
because there's too many crypto miners?
SanDisk was $48 on April 2nd. That's a
$126 stock. Pretty crazy. These are just
These are like just the tools that just
store just basic Yeah. Yeah, crazy. It's
it is and uh
it's it
I guess you could be worried by that or
you could say
this isn't this isn't like Nvidia
doubling in a month necessarily, right?
It's just people discovering I think
it's a good barometer which is important
in a bubble that people are still paying
very close attention. And you start to
get worried when everybody just goes
into the Cisco of it all. But these are
real companies that have real products.
Of course, there's some silly stuff
that's happening, but
it's not only silly stuff. It's not 2021
with the you know
Yeah. I don't need to
So speaking of on the ground research or
maybe I should say in the sky research,
when it comes to robotics, you had a
robot dog, right? One of those like
really advanced ones. We got a Unitree
robot dog. It is super impressive It's
also incredibly creepy when it stands up
on its hind legs. Yeah, have you seen
the video? Yeah, I saw your video of it,
yeah. It's
and it
Unitree we went and visited Unitree,
too, and it's
I've seen Boston Dynamics uh you know
Spot robot which is actually more
impressive. Also could probably murder
you.
Like and and the interesting thing about
Unitree is yeah, this the robot kind of
feels like a weapon. It's very heavy and
stuff, but it's even their humanoid like
it can't lift more than 8 lb.
And also Unitree's not focused on like
making the brain. They just want to make
the hardware. And you go there and and
they were like
where's your lidar from?
Oh, well, we needed this specific thing
so we just made it ourselves. Hm. Okay,
where are you What about your actuators?
Well, we made those ourselves, too.
Anything that they don't make
themselves, they get within a 90 km
radius of their headquarters. Wait,
where's their headquarters? It's in
Hangzhou. Nice. So it's something where
you're really
that's the competition that we have
stacked up against us in the US versus
China. And
I think the interesting route that
they've taken is
it's super advanced. You can code on it.
You can you can already see videos of
people, you know, buying them and making
them do specific things, but they made
them not super
like it's not going to kill you. And
that's a great way to get a bunch of
training data.
Because we don't have enough training
data of what it's like to move around
the world. We have the sum history of
all human knowledge that's been recorded
for text models, but we need more data
for robotics. And I think that that's
like
an interesting kind of thing where
they're just kind of sending these out
into the world so that they can get
enough data to actually make it safe
enough to have a robot in your house.
Can anyone buy a Unitree dog? Like are
they for for sale online? Yeah, there's
a lead time, but I can get around it if
you uh
Wait, how much are they? Uh so they
start at 3,000 and then we got the the
super advanced one that you can attach a
robotic arm to so it can manipulate its
environment and that was $8,000.
And then their humanoid is 16 which is
like less than the cost of a used Honda
Civic. It's not bad. Well, 3,000 also
the price for like a really good
purebred dog.
>> what I was going to say. Like I don't
know what that says. People pay a lot of
money for actual dogs, so yeah, it seems
reasonable.
>> you looking at me?
Why do you think I'm looking at you?
Okay. James, that was so much fun. Thank
you so much for coming in and sharing
with us your your field trip
observations. Thanks for having me.
[Music]
Joe, I think maybe it's the cynical
journalist in me, but
I get really nervous when we start
saying it's different this time.
Yeah, I mean it's always different, it's
always the same is sort of there are
certainly you know, yeah.
I mean look, it's crazy and it's a lot
of money and it's still you know, we've
been asking people on the podcast what
kind of use value are you getting out of
this technology and it's still very
ambiguous. Um
I don't know. I don't have I'm it's not
my job to time the market. So I'm glad I
don't have to have a view on all of this
stuff. But I do think
>> Joe.
>> No, I do think
I do think for Okay, what's your Okay,
give us your Give us your price target.
That's a Okay, give give us your price
target.
>> I'm copping out, Joe. Okay.
Uh I do think this is moving so fast and
every day the numbers are so big and
it's the stakes are so high for all of
this that it does feel like we just need
regular updates on the state of how much
money is being spent in this area and
what the eventual payoff will be. I want
someone to draw a massive like
infographic of all the financing deals
because I think you could make a really
interesting one. Yeah, you definitely
could.
>> That would probably be illuminating. On
that note, I did think James's
suggestion of you know, shorting the
private credit players and then going
long the actual physical hardware ones,
that was interesting.
>> Yeah, no, it's really interesting. Also,
I had not realized I mean it is very
interesting the way booms or bubbles,
whatever you want to call it. I don't
like using the word bubble because
that applies whatever. Booms or bubbles,
the way they spread out. I just think
that's extremely interesting, right? So
Nvidia takes off in late 2022 when
people are blown away by chat GPT and
they say this is incredible and it's
being powered by all these
Nvidia chips. And then people go on the
hunt, right? For other things. It's like
what else? And even still today in
October 2025, that spreading out process
continues. And so okay, in the last few
months maybe it's like a caterpillar or
maybe suddenly people are realizing that
just sort of old-fashioned computer
storage is going to be very hot. But
we're still in this phase where as
people open their eyes to these things,
the spreading out continues to this day.
>> Right. Well, also there's an expectation
that eventually, you know, normal
companies are going to benefit from it
as well and become more efficient and
all of that. I just remembered I was the
one question I was going to ask James,
but I could just throw it out as sort of
a speculative question. So he mentioned
all the workers, could you ask all the
workers that are out there or that are
building these things? And it does make
me wonder about the sort of crowding out
possibility. Like imagine if you Imagine
if you had some other business in
Abilene and you're trying to hire an
HVAC worker right now cuz HVAC you know,
you're like oh restaurant. And you're
competing with like OpenAI. Yeah, you're
like you're you have a restaurant in
Abilene and you're like, you know what?
I need to update my air conditioner or
whatever or whatever.
>> Yeah, there's no hope. And what are you
going to do because all the HVAC workers
are at that big Stargate operation. And
I do think this is a very interesting
macro question on all kinds of things
which is the degree to which all of this
spending with uncertain payoffs will
have a crowding out and potentially
inflationary effect on the rest of the
economy. Well, presumably machine god
will eventually design HVAC robots, so
problem will be solved.
>> Problem will be solved. All right, shall
we leave it there? Let's leave it there.
This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at the
Stalwart. Follow our guest James Van
Guilder, he's at Satrini7. Follow our
producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Armandas, Joe Bennett at Dashbot and
Caleb Brooks at Caleb Brooks. For more
Odd Lots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odd lots. We have a daily
newsletter and all of our episodes and
you can chat about all of these topics
24/7 in our Discord, discord.gg/odd
lots. And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you
like it when we talk about the physical
realities of AI, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely ad-free.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there.
Thanks for listening.
[Music]